README.md, before:

### Some changes in my branch to test PR Import Script

# Status - a Mobile Ethereum Operating System

[<img src="https://play.google.com/intl/en_us/badges/images/generic/en-play-badge.png" alt="Get it on Google Play" height="80"/>](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=im.status.ethereum)
[<img src="https://fdroid.gitlab.io/artwork/badge/get-it-on.png" alt="Get it on F-Droid" height="80"/>](https://f-droid.org/packages/im.status.ethereum/)


[Get it on Github](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/releases)

Join us in creating a browser, messenger, and gateway to a decentralized world. Status is a free (libre) open source mobile client targeting Android & iOS built entirely on [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) technologies. That's right, no middle men and `go-ethereum` running directly on your device.

[![Getting started with Status](https://i.imgur.com/C0aZZEL.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oDCSEmS9c3o "Getting started with Status")

## Why?

We believe in a medium of pure free trade, economies with fair, permission-less access and a world without intermediaries. We want to create policies that can exist between friends or scale globally, we want to communicate securely and be uninhibited by legacy systems.

We want to take responsibility for our data, the way we conduct ourselves privately and promote this way of life to a mass audience.

We want deep insights into our own economies so we can make informed, data-driven decisions on how to make our lives better. The Ethereum blockchain, Smart Contracts, Swarm and Whisper provides us a path forward.

If this interests you, **help us make Status a reality** - anyone can contribute and we need everyone at any skill level to participate.

## How to Contribute?

Go straight to the [docs](doc/) and choose what interests you:

- **Developer** Developers are the heart of software and to keep Status beating
we need all the help we can get! If you're looking to code in ClojureScript or
Golang then Status is the project for you! We use React Native and there is even
some Java/Objective-C too! Want to learn more about it? Start by reading our
[Developer Introduction](doc/starting-guide.md) which guides you
through the technology stack and start browsing [beginner
issues](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20label%3A%22good%20first%20issue%22%20).
Then you can read how to [Build
Status](doc/starting-guide.md), which talks about managing
project dependencies, coding guidelines and testing procedures.
Check out our [coding guidelines](doc/new-guidelines.md).

- **Community Management**
Metcalfe's law states that the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system - without community Status is meaningless. We're looking to create a positive, fun environment to explore new ideas, experiment and grow the Status community. Building a community takes a lot of work but the people you'll meet and long lasting relationships you form will be well worth it, check out our [Mission and Community Principles](https://status.im/about)

- **Specification / Documentation**
John Dewey once said "Education is not preparation for life; education is life *itself* ". Developers & Designers need guidance and it all starts from documentation and specifications. Our software is only as good as its documentation, check out our [docs](doc/) and see how you can improve what we have.

- **Blog Writing**
Content is King, keeping our blog up to date and informing the community of news helps keep everyone on the same page.

- **Testers**
It's bug hunting season! Status is currently under active development and there is sure to be a bunch of learning, [build status from scratch](doc/starting-guide.md) or if an android user check out our [nightly builds](https://status.im/nightly). You can shake your phone to submit bug reports, or start browsing our [Github Issues](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/issues). Every bug you find brings Status closer to stable, usable software for everyone to enjoy!

- **Security**
Status is a visual interface to make permanent changes on the Blockchain, it handles crypto-tokens that have real value and allows 3rd party code execution. Security is paramount to its success. You are given permission to break Status as hard as you can, as long as you share your findings with the community!

- **Evangelism**
Help us spread the word! Tell a friend *right now*, in fact tell **everyone** - yell from a mountain if you have to, every person counts! If you've got a great story to tell or have some interesting way you've spread the word about Status let us know about it in our [chat](https://join.status.im/chat/public/status)

## Give me Binaries!

You can get our Beta builds for both Android and iOS on our [website](https://status.im), through our [nightly builds](https://status.im/nightly/) or by [building it yourself](https://status.im/technical/build_status/).

## Core Contributors

[Core Team Members](https://github.com/orgs/status-im/people)

Special thanks to [@adrian-tiberius](https://github.com/adrian-tiberius).
Without the dedication of these outstanding individuals, Status would not exist.

## Contact us

Feel free to email us at [support@status.im](mailto:support@status.im).

## License

Licensed under the [Mozilla Public License v2.0](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/blob/develop/LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

Update README.md to test sync

README.md, after:

### Some changes in my branch to test PR Import Script
### some more changes in my branch to further test the PR Sync feature

# Status - a Mobile Ethereum Operating System

[<img src="https://play.google.com/intl/en_us/badges/images/generic/en-play-badge.png" alt="Get it on Google Play" height="80"/>](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=im.status.ethereum)
[<img src="https://fdroid.gitlab.io/artwork/badge/get-it-on.png" alt="Get it on F-Droid" height="80"/>](https://f-droid.org/packages/im.status.ethereum/)


[Get it on Github](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/releases)

Join us in creating a browser, messenger, and gateway to a decentralized world. Status is a free (libre) open source mobile client targeting Android & iOS built entirely on [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) technologies. That's right, no middle men and `go-ethereum` running directly on your device.

[![Getting started with Status](https://i.imgur.com/C0aZZEL.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oDCSEmS9c3o "Getting started with Status")

## Why?

We believe in a medium of pure free trade, economies with fair, permission-less access and a world without intermediaries. We want to create policies that can exist between friends or scale globally, we want to communicate securely and be uninhibited by legacy systems.

We want to take responsibility for our data, the way we conduct ourselves privately and promote this way of life to a mass audience.

We want deep insights into our own economies so we can make informed, data-driven decisions on how to make our lives better. The Ethereum blockchain, Smart Contracts, Swarm and Whisper provides us a path forward.

If this interests you, **help us make Status a reality** - anyone can contribute and we need everyone at any skill level to participate.

## How to Contribute?

Go straight to the [docs](doc/) and choose what interests you:

- **Developer** Developers are the heart of software and to keep Status beating
we need all the help we can get! If you're looking to code in ClojureScript or
Golang then Status is the project for you! We use React Native and there is even
some Java/Objective-C too! Want to learn more about it? Start by reading our
[Developer Introduction](doc/starting-guide.md) which guides you
through the technology stack and start browsing [beginner
issues](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20label%3A%22good%20first%20issue%22%20).
Then you can read how to [Build
Status](doc/starting-guide.md), which talks about managing
project dependencies, coding guidelines and testing procedures.
Check out our [coding guidelines](doc/new-guidelines.md).

- **Community Management**
Metcalfe's law states that the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system - without community Status is meaningless. We're looking to create a positive, fun environment to explore new ideas, experiment and grow the Status community. Building a community takes a lot of work but the people you'll meet and long lasting relationships you form will be well worth it, check out our [Mission and Community Principles](https://status.im/about)

- **Specification / Documentation**
John Dewey once said "Education is not preparation for life; education is life *itself* ". Developers & Designers need guidance and it all starts from documentation and specifications. Our software is only as good as its documentation, check out our [docs](doc/) and see how you can improve what we have.

- **Blog Writing**
Content is King, keeping our blog up to date and informing the community of news helps keep everyone on the same page.

- **Testers**
It's bug hunting season! Status is currently under active development and there is sure to be a bunch of learning, [build status from scratch](doc/starting-guide.md) or if an android user check out our [nightly builds](https://status.im/nightly). You can shake your phone to submit bug reports, or start browsing our [Github Issues](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/issues). Every bug you find brings Status closer to stable, usable software for everyone to enjoy!

- **Security**
Status is a visual interface to make permanent changes on the Blockchain, it handles crypto-tokens that have real value and allows 3rd party code execution. Security is paramount to its success. You are given permission to break Status as hard as you can, as long as you share your findings with the community!

- **Evangelism**
Help us spread the word! Tell a friend *right now*, in fact tell **everyone** - yell from a mountain if you have to, every person counts! If you've got a great story to tell or have some interesting way you've spread the word about Status let us know about it in our [chat](https://join.status.im/chat/public/status)

## Give me Binaries!

You can get our Beta builds for both Android and iOS on our [website](https://status.im), through our [nightly builds](https://status.im/nightly/) or by [building it yourself](https://status.im/technical/build_status/).

## Core Contributors

[Core Team Members](https://github.com/orgs/status-im/people)

Special thanks to [@adrian-tiberius](https://github.com/adrian-tiberius).
Without the dedication of these outstanding individuals, Status would not exist.

## Contact us

Feel free to email us at [support@status.im](mailto:support@status.im).

## License

Licensed under the [Mozilla Public License v2.0](https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/blob/develop/LICENSE.md)
