doc/merging-pr-process.md, before:

## PR process

1) Create a PR in status-mobile
2) Add some reviewers to the PR and wait for feedback
3) Address feedback
4) Make sure builds and tests are green (run `make test` locally, `make lint-fix` to fix any indentation issue and `make lint`)
5) Once the PR has been reviewed by the dev team you can run e2e tests on it by going to https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/projects/7 and move the pr under the column E2E tests. This will trigger tests.
6) Once e2e tests have run, they will report the result on the PR, if it's less than 100%, ask QA to take a look to make sure everything is in order (some might fail for legitimate reasons)
7) Ask QA for manual testing if the PR requires it
8) Once it has been tested successfully, squash everything into one commit. rebase and merge. The commands we use:
```
  git checkout develop
  git pull develop
  git checkout your-feature-branch
  git rebase develop
  git checkout develop
  git rebase your-feature-branch
  git push
```


## Status-go changes

If you are introducing status-go changes, the PR process is pretty similar, with some differences.

The most important thing is that

status-mobile code that makes it to the `develop` branch, should always point to a tagged version of status-go in the `develop` branch of status-go.

In practice, this means that sometimes they need to be merged in lockstep.
1) Create a PR in status-go and status-mobile. Update the status-go version to the PR revision `scripts/update-status-go.sh $git_revision`.
2) Get both PRs reviewed and approved. Once status-mobile PR has been approved, go through manual QA testing if necessary. Don't merge status-mobile PR just yet.
3) Now that you know the integration between client & server is working, bump the `VERSION` in status-go and merge it.
4) Once merged, tag the version with the new version and push the tag:
```
  git checkout develop
  git pull develop
  git tag vx.y.z
  git push origin vx.y.z
```
5) Update status-mobile with the new status-go version, using the new tag `scripts/update-status-go.sh "vx.y.z"`
6) In status-mobile, push, rebase against `develop` and merge it 🚀


important note : make sure your status-go PRs get a tested-ok by QA before merging them in.

Commit message:

Added PR Review Policy (#16280)
* Added PR Review Policy

* Reformat of Policy section to headline with policy fundementals

* Renaming code owner to requester

doc/merging-pr-process.md, after:

## PR process

1) Create a PR in status-mobile
2) Add some reviewers to the PR and wait for feedback
3) Address feedback
4) Make sure builds and tests are green (run `make test` locally, `make lint-fix` to fix any indentation issue and `make lint`)
5) Once the PR has been reviewed by the dev team you can run e2e tests on it by going to https://github.com/status-im/status-mobile/projects/7 and move the pr under the column E2E tests. This will trigger tests.
   1) Read our [PR Review Policy](pr-review-policy.md) for more details on our approach to PR reviews.
6) Once e2e tests have run, they will report the result on the PR, if it's less than 100%, ask QA to take a look to make sure everything is in order (some might fail for legitimate reasons)
7) Ask QA for manual testing if the PR requires it
8) Once it has been tested successfully, squash everything into one commit. rebase and merge. The commands we use:
```
  git checkout develop
  git pull develop
  git checkout your-feature-branch
  git rebase develop
  git checkout develop
  git rebase your-feature-branch
  git push
```


## Status-go changes

If you are introducing status-go changes, the PR process is pretty similar, with some differences.

The most important thing is that

status-mobile code that makes it to the `develop` branch, should always point to a tagged version of status-go in the `develop` branch of status-go.

In practice, this means that sometimes they need to be merged in lockstep.
1) Create a PR in status-go and status-mobile. Update the status-go version to the PR revision `scripts/update-status-go.sh $git_revision`.
2) Get both PRs reviewed and approved. Once status-mobile PR has been approved, go through manual QA testing if necessary. Don't merge status-mobile PR just yet.
3) Now that you know the integration between client & server is working, bump the `VERSION` in status-go and merge it.
4) Once merged, tag the version with the new version and push the tag:
```
  git checkout develop
  git pull develop
  git tag vx.y.z
  git push origin vx.y.z
```
5) Update status-mobile with the new status-go version, using the new tag `scripts/update-status-go.sh "vx.y.z"`
6) In status-mobile, push, rebase against `develop` and merge it 🚀


important note : make sure your status-go PRs get a tested-ok by QA before merging them in.
