doc/starting-guide.md, before:

# Description

This document provides information on how to start developing Status App.

# Getting Started

To start developing start a shell for platform you are interested in.
```
make shell TARGET=android
```
This step will take a while the first time as it will download all dependencies.

# Development

There are three steps necessary to start development, in this case for Android:

1. `make run-clojure` - Compiles Clojure into JavaScript, watches for changes on cljs files, and hot-reloads code in the app.
2. `make run-metro` - Starts metro bundler and watches JavaScript code.
3. `make run-android` or `make run-ios` - Builds the Android/iOS app and starts it on the device.

The first two will continue watching for changes and keep re-building the app. They need to be ready first.
The last one will exit once the app is up and ready.

## Simulators and Devices
### Android

You need to have an emulator like [AVD](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator), or [Genymotion](#genymotion-virtualization), or a real device running and visible to [adb](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb), before you run `make run-android`.

### iOS

You can specify the simulator type by adding the `SIMULATOR` flag:
```sh
make run-ios SIMULATOR="iPhone 11 Pro"
```
Some manual steps are necesary for [developing on a physical iOS Device](#physical-ios-device).

# Build release

To build the app, your can simply run on of the following:
```
make release-android
make release-ios
```

For more `make` targets run `make help`.

# Updating Dependencies

* `make nix-update-pods` - iOS CocoaPods dependencies (updates `ios/Podfile` and `ios/Podfile.loc`)
* `make nix-update-gradle` - Android Gradle/Maven dependencies (updates `nix/deps/gradle/deps.json`)
* `make nix-update-clojure` - Clojure Maven dependencies (updates `nix/deps/clojure/deps.json`)
* `make nix-update-gems` - Fastlane Ruby dependencies (updates `fastlane/Gemfile.lock` and `fastlane/gemset.nix`)

# Manual Steps

There are a few manual steps you might want to do in order to start contributing.

## Genymotion Virtualization

Optionally set up Genymotion if you don't want to use Android Virtual Device:

https://www.genymotion.com

## Android Development Environment

You can also setup Android Development Environment + Simulator:

https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started.html

## Configure GitHub Account

The optimal way of pushing to GitHubis using SSH instead of user/pass auth.

It's recommented that you [add your public SSH key to your GitHub account](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

## Configure GPG Keys for signing commits

In order to increase security we require all commits in `status-mobile` repo to be signed with a GPG key.

Steps:
1. [Generate a new GPG key](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-gpg-key)
2. [Setup Git to use your GPG key](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/telling-git-about-your-signing-key)
3. [Setup Git to sign commits](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/signing-commits)
4. [Setup GitHub to validate commits](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-gpg-key-to-your-github-account)

## Physical iOS Device

To use a physical iPhone your device UDID must be added to provisioning profiles and your Apple account invited as Developer to Status team.

1. [Get your UDID of your iPhone.](https://www.extentia.com/post/finding-the-udid-of-an-ios-device)
2. Request from someone with access like @cammellos or @jakubgs to
  - Add the UDID to development devices on Apple Developer Portal.
  - Invite your Apple account to be Developer in Status team.
3. Run a build in XCode using the project from `status-mobile/ios` directory.
  - You might see error: `Select a development team in the Signing & Capabilities editor`
  - Select `Status Research & Development GmbH` as the development team and rebuild again.

Once build finishes Status should start on your iPhone with its logs in terminal running `make run-metro`.

Commit message:

Update default iOS Simulator (#16289)
Signed-off-by: Mohamed Javid <19339952+smohamedjavid@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/starting-guide.md, after:

# Description

This document provides information on how to start developing Status App.

# Getting Started

To start developing start a shell for platform you are interested in.
```
make shell TARGET=android
```
This step will take a while the first time as it will download all dependencies.

# Development

There are three steps necessary to start development, in this case for Android:

1. `make run-clojure` - Compiles Clojure into JavaScript, watches for changes on cljs files, and hot-reloads code in the app.
2. `make run-metro` - Starts metro bundler and watches JavaScript code.
3. `make run-android` or `make run-ios` - Builds the Android/iOS app and starts it on the device.

The first two will continue watching for changes and keep re-building the app. They need to be ready first.
The last one will exit once the app is up and ready.

## Simulators and Devices
### Android

You need to have an emulator like [AVD](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator), or [Genymotion](#genymotion-virtualization), or a real device running and visible to [adb](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb), before you run `make run-android`.

### iOS

#### Running on a simulator

We highly recommend using the `iPhone 11 Pro` simulator as its screen dimensions match with our design.

If you have Xcode `v12.x` (and above) installed in your system, you need to follow the below steps to add `iPhone 11 Pro` simulator:

1. Open Xcode
2. Menu `>` Window `>` Devices and Simulators
3. Tap `+` button on bottom left
4. Select **Device Type** as `iPhone 11 Pro`
5. Leave the **Simulator Name** empty and tap on **Create**

##### NOTE ⚠️

Running `make run-ios` will target `iPhone 11 Pro` by default.

If you need to run on any other simulator, you can specify the simulator type by adding the `SIMULATOR` flag:
```sh
make run-ios SIMULATOR="iPhone 11 Pro"
```

#### Running on a physical device

Some manual steps are necessary for [developing on a physical iOS Device](#physical-ios-device).

# Build release

To build the app, your can simply run on of the following:
```
make release-android
make release-ios
```

For more `make` targets run `make help`.

# Updating Dependencies

* `make nix-update-pods` - iOS CocoaPods dependencies (updates `ios/Podfile` and `ios/Podfile.loc`)
* `make nix-update-gradle` - Android Gradle/Maven dependencies (updates `nix/deps/gradle/deps.json`)
* `make nix-update-clojure` - Clojure Maven dependencies (updates `nix/deps/clojure/deps.json`)
* `make nix-update-gems` - Fastlane Ruby dependencies (updates `fastlane/Gemfile.lock` and `fastlane/gemset.nix`)

# Manual Steps

There are a few manual steps you might want to do in order to start contributing.

## Genymotion Virtualization

Optionally set up Genymotion if you don't want to use Android Virtual Device:

https://www.genymotion.com

## Android Development Environment

You can also setup Android Development Environment + Simulator:

https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started.html

## Configure GitHub Account

The optimal way of pushing to GitHubis using SSH instead of user/pass auth.

It's recommented that you [add your public SSH key to your GitHub account](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

## Configure GPG Keys for signing commits

In order to increase security we require all commits in `status-mobile` repo to be signed with a GPG key.

Steps:
1. [Generate a new GPG key](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-gpg-key)
2. [Setup Git to use your GPG key](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/telling-git-about-your-signing-key)
3. [Setup Git to sign commits](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/signing-commits)
4. [Setup GitHub to validate commits](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-gpg-key-to-your-github-account)

## Physical iOS Device

To use a physical iPhone your device UDID must be added to provisioning profiles and your Apple account invited as Developer to Status team.

1. [Get your UDID of your iPhone.](https://www.extentia.com/post/finding-the-udid-of-an-ios-device)
2. Request from someone with access like @cammellos or @jakubgs to
  - Add the UDID to development devices on Apple Developer Portal.
  - Invite your Apple account to be Developer in Status team.
3. Run a build in XCode using the project from `status-mobile/ios` directory.
  - You might see error: `Select a development team in the Signing & Capabilities editor`
  - Select `Status Research & Development GmbH` as the development team and rebuild again.

Once build finishes Status should start on your iPhone with its logs in terminal running `make run-metro`.
